I am a computational archaeologist (PhD, Texas A&M University, 2013), and recently returned to graduate school to study biostatistics and computational biology. My interests are broad, and range from predictive modeling (historical biogeography) and the quantitative study of shape change in cultural artefacts (linear + orthogonal + geometric morphometrics), to data science and engineering. I am a tinkerer by nature, am _incredibly_ curious, and have always enjoyed taking things apart to see how they work. I am a champion of all things open access, serve as an Academic Editor at PLOS ONE (submit your manuscripts!), a moderator at SocArXiv (submit your preprints!), and am a co-founding editor of the Index of Texas Archaeology.

My research program is aimed at better understanding morphological variation and historical biogeography in the archaeological record. I use data-driven approaches to study how material culture informs the cultural and practical choices made by ancient artisans that resulted in temporal and spatial variation, how subtle material culture differences support theoretical inferences used to demarcate discrete groups and/or communities, and have become particularly interested in questions of ontology and archaeological epistemology. My work leverages shape analysis and predictive analytics, coupled with the tools of computer and data science, statistics, and GIS. This work is informed by active engagement with the public, as well as Tribal and descendant communities, and fosters an open access and reproducible approach to research that aids in addressing complex anthropological questions, while democratizing my research results.
